---
layout: post
title:  "Brundage Mountain Resort, Idaho"
date:   2023-12-19 22:30:02 -0600
categories: [ skiing ]
---

## The TLDR
Brundage Mountain is located just outside McCall, Idaho (about 2.5 hours
from Boise). Grace and I ended up here in February 2023 because
we got a free pass to ski here with our Mount Bohemia passes.

### The would I go back?
I would really consider going back. Brundage is an affordable (lift tickets
were like $80 but we got ours for free), low-key, beautiful, and quality 
place to ski. Assuming the snow is there, this is a good spot that's worth
considering when looking for the above. It's not one of the flagship 
ski resorts in the US, but I think skiing is skiing when you get there
and even a group of people could have fun here. The nearby town of McCall seems like
it would be a nice place to stay too.

## The day
This day of skiing was a lot of fun. We woke up in the parking lot and had
the mountain largely to ourselves for this day. It was colder and
cloudy in the morning and I think it became a bluebird afternoon. I feel like we 
kept pretty busy going to various pieces of the mountian and got to hit 
most all of the areas that felt interesting.

## The skiing
Brundage offers nearly 2000 acres of skiing and almost 2k feet of vert. 
The mountain is sort of shaped with 1 wide west facing slope on the front side
where the lifts reach the top of a ridge that doesn't necessarily have
a prominent peak. There is some east facing terrain off the backside and an 
expert's only area on the north end of the front side. 

### The snow
It seemed like there was pretty good coverage all around. I feel like the 
snow at the beginning was decently chalky. I remember running into some
stashes on the back side that my 84 mm waisted skis didn't totally love.
There seemed to be a bit of crust and thickness to the snow. It may have
gotten better as the day wore on, people skiied it, the sun came out and it 
got warmer. 


### The mountain
#### The Front Side
[Front Side trail map]

The front side is where a lot of the acreage comes from. There were a good
amount of steep pitches and a variety of runs with and without trees. Given
how the wind blew and snow fell, the pine trees here looked a lot like what
you see on the east coast.

We spent a lot of time on the few top to bottom lifts in this area given 
it covered so much ground. The blues and blacks that branched out gave a lot
of options and there were a lot of trees you could jump in and out of along 
basically every run. 

#### The Back Side
[Back Side trail map]

The backside looks off to the south east over Payette Lake. It's a beautiful view
to ski down towards. The top ridgeline that I mentioned for the front side 
extends to the south of the lift that services the backside. It's worth 
mentioning this becasue it wasn't abundantly clear that going one way on that
ridge would force you to the front side. I think we screwed that up at least one
time. 

This back side of the mountain was a fun area with a lot of fairly mellow pitches
with a lot of trees throughout. There aren't a ton of actual runs but if you commit
to exploring the trees, you can see a lot of non-repititive terrain.


#### The Hidden Valley
[Hidden Valley trail map]

To the north of the main area on the front side was also a cool experts only area
called Hidden Valley. This reminded me of a more tame version of Catherine's area
at Alta in Utah. It had a long traverse in, rocks, trees and was pretty steep in
spots. Tons of fun. 

Given the challenge of this area, it was a great spot to be. We found some fresh
stash's of powder as we ventured out into this area too. The only downside
is that I think this almost certainly required a long run out to a lift that may
have forced Grace to push on the snowboard a few times.

#### The Backcountry
We did not do any backcountry skiing, but Brundage also has cat skiing that takes
you off into a massive backcountry area. I believe you could also venture into this 
area with your own touring gear too.

## The human element
In short, Brundage is the type of place you care much more about the section
above and much less about what sort of frills the resort has to offer.
 
### The Crowds
Given McCall isn't necessarily known as a big ski town in a state that's not
necessarily known as a big ski state, I have a hard time believing Brundage 
ever gets that busy. It's in a beautiful but pretty remote location. 
We were also there on a Friday, so it's hard to say what the local scene
could look like on the weekend. 

### The Amenities
There's a single lodge at Brundage that closes shop at 4 pm. We didn't 
eat at the lodge becasue we were eating lunch from the car. 

Huge benefit for us when we visited. They have a huge parking lot that is
open for car camping. I think it was free. We basically just pulled up and 
slept for the evening with maybe 2 other cars in the parking lot. Aside from 
the groomers going along and doing their thing, we weren't bothered at all.
 
[Front Side trail map]:https://brundage.com/frontside-trail-map/
[Back Side trail map]:https://brundage.com/lakeview-trail-map/
[Hidden Valley trail map]:https://brundage.com/hidden-valley-map/