---
layout: post
title:  "A spontaneous trip to Idaho - Feb 23"
date:   2023-12-12 22:30:02 -0600
categories: [travel, skiing]
---

Grace and I have been buying the Mount Bohemia $99 season pass for a 
few years. It's a sweet deal. We can essentially make it worth it by 
making 1 trip to the UP each winter. And that's not to mention Bohemia
is probably the best skiing you can do in the midwest - it's hard, ungroomed, 
and has the potential to get a TON of snow. Another huge perk
with the pass is a large number of partner resorts that give out a day
or so of free skiing for Bohemia pass holders. Naturally, I've been 
eyeing this up for a few years as a "cheap" way to make a trip west. 
This year, the starts finally aligned when I found cheap-ish flights 
into Boise where we could take advantage of free skiing at
Brundage Mountain in McCall, Idaho and Bogus Basin just outside of Boise.


## Some planning
After some hesitation of whether is was really worth it, we set our sights on
a jammed packed weekend trip in early February. At a high level, the travel plan
was:
- Fly out of Milwaukee early on Thursday morning
- Arrive in Boise by midday Thursday
- Drive to McCall from Boise on Thursday (2.5 hours)
- Ski at Brundage on Friday 
- Drive back to Boise on Friday after skiing
- Ski at Bogus Basin on Saturday
- Fly out of Boise at 5:40 AM on Sunday

Back to Bohemia for a second. Mount Bohemia is in my mind what skiing is all 
about. People are there to ski and have fun along the way. The best
amenities are a large hot tub and grungy, sweat 
smelling yurts where the bar is. But another interesting piece of Boho is
the tailgating/camping culture. No matter how cold, tons of people camp at 
Boho. This is admittedly probably because your options are pretty limited. 
You can stay 30-40 minutes way or stay in the yurts - both with the potential of
being a bit expensive. So people camp. We've never done it before, but we figured
what the heck -- this trip to Boise would be the perfec time to figure out how
this works.

So we bought some new gear that could fit in our backingpacking packs and
hopefully keep us warm with the plan of sleeping in the car each night on the
trip. Aside from the obvious fact that it's winter and cold and any time you
travel a warm shower is nice, camping was a good option for us. It was just
the 2 of us (or so we thought -- more on that later), so we could be flexible.
We're also pretty cheap, so not needing to pay for lodging would be sweet. 
And we're skiing. So if you do end up smelling, you have a bunch of layers
on to cover the smell.

The biggest pieces of gear that we bought that are worth noting:
- A sleeping pad with a high R value
     - The R value indicates the pad is made for winter camping
     - The pad is also really really important for warmth because your
     sleeping bag doesn't do the best job keeping the heat in under you 
     (because you're compressing the filling)
     - This probably isn't the biggest deal when sleeping in the car, 
     but would be super important if you were sleeping in a tent on the 
     ground
- A sleeping bag liner.
     - This was huge. I'd never heard of these before but they allege that
     the liner can add ~15 degrees to your sleeping bag's temp rating

Short aside to address the comment about this trip being just the 2 of us.
We planned this trip sort of late, but then even closer to (like a week
before leaving) we found out Grace was PREGNANT. That's probably worth its
own post. 

## Traveling to
Nevertheless, a few days later we're sitting at Caribou coffee for a long layover in
the Minneapolis airport (a theme for our travels through MSP). Also, plug.
The MSP bathrooms are awesome. Highly recommend sitting in MSP if you get
a choice of which airport you'd HAVE to sit in (I'm not crazy - I don't 
enjoy sitting in airports, but this is less bad than ususal). 

On the descent into Boise, I'm thinking it looks like there is no snow anywhere
near this town. It's sort of a worrisome feeling -- spending a fair amount of money,
taking a few days off work, traveling with a pregnant lady -- to not know if you'll
even be able to accomplish the goal of the trip -- skiing. A comical story
from the Boise airport. I head down to the rental car counter and the enterprise guy
says that I get a free upgrade (I originally booked a Full size SUV). I can choose 
between a brand new Buick Enclave or a Chevy Suburban. Without second though, I opt
for the Suburban. It's the natural choice -- a suburban home in the mountains with 
a lot of space for our gear. The guy responds, "How many poeple are with you?" and when
I say "Just my wife and I" we gave me sort of a look of bewilderment. Like what the
heck does this guy need this car for. I'm totally speculating, but like to think it
this way.

We stopped at Walmart to pickup the pickup order we placed beforehand and headed North
for McCall. It took a while for any snow to appear, but after heading through some 
pretty narrow roads and climbing quite a bit, we were in it. It was an absolutely 
gorgeous drive and a gorgeous day to do it. A ton of snow and bluebird skies all around.

## A Thursday night in a Parking Lot
We ate at a spot called [Frenchies] on getting to McCall and watched the Wisconsin
basketball team beat Ohio State while we ate. Then it was time to test our mettle. We drove
up out of town to the Brundage Mountain resort to find the parking lot completely empty, other
than maybe 2 other cars. It seemed safe to just pick whatever spot you wanted that was out of
the way. We got our stuff ourganized on our suburban home by pulling out sleeping
pads, liners and bags. We opted for warm base layers with a winter hat so that we could let the
sleeping bag and liner do their thing in keeping us warm. We'd read beforehand that
having too many clothes on could end up getting you cold. Once set, we opened the windows 
a crack to promote some air flow our home and hit the hay. I've personally never slept
outside when it was that cold. I think that I slept fairly well, but I also woke up 
several times really hoping it was close to morning as the groomer went past our suburban home.
When morning finally came, it was 15 degrees.
We survived -- aside from an aboslutely wicked fart that Grace to this day blames on Gwen!    

## Beautiful sking by ourselves and Chili Mac
The skiing at Brundage Mountain on Friday was great. I highly doubt this place ever gets 
that busy, but it was noticeably not busy for us. It's certainly a barebones resort with 
one lodge that closes at 4 pm. But it turned out to be a bluebird day with absolutely 
beautiful scenery for 360 degrees and even a few fresh stashes as we made our way around. 
I'll write another post about the actual resort elsewhere. 

After we finished skiing for the day, we drove back towards Boise to get to Bogus Basin. 
Like the drive up, it was beautiful snow capped mountains all around. The road to get to
Bogus Basin was something of lore. Though I don't typically drive a vehicle as large as 
our suburban home, this road was unbelievably windy. And it was super interesting too. We 
drove along roads with no snow anywhere for a while. And then when we got to the resort
there was a ton of snow everywhere. I imagine this is largely because the road to get to 
the resort was just traversing mountain ridges to get deeper into the mountains. 

On arriving at Bogus, we found a spot (there were many of them) in Lot 4 (where they 
allow camping). Being exhausted from a day of skiing and sus sleep the night before, we 
got started 
on dinner. The dinner plan for the night was cambells chunky in the can that was headed up
on the small camping stove.  While patiently waiting for the soup/chili mac to heat up, 
I watched scores of ski club skiers on the opposing hillside. When the chili mac finally
got heated up, it was pretty gross and sorta nerveracking because I'm still not sure if 
you should eat these things directly out of the can. And at this point, Grace and I are 
totally unsure of what is or isn't OK for a newly developing baby.
We'll aire on the side of caution in the future and figure out a better way to heat it 
up. After getting some sustenance, we curled into our sleeping bags in our suburban home 
while others parked around us headed home for the night. Friday night was definitely 
warmer than the previous night. I may have just been more tired, but I slept like a baby. 

## BOGUS 
We woke up in the morning in and were able to take advantage our ski in/out suburban home.
Bogus basin was also beautiful and crazy expansive. For a place that seemed pretty busy 
(keep in mind it's 40 minutes from Boise), you were able to move around to different
areas and avoid people for the most part. There were definitely a few lift lines that we
waited in too, but nothing that was terribly long. Today was a lot warmer and the snow 
got pretty mushy when the sun was out. I do recall the wind picking up later in the day 
and hardening things up some. As previously mentioned with Brundage, I intend to write up
a separate post about my thoughts on Bogus Basin.

Our original plan was to sleep at Bogus again on Saturday night, but with the road to get
down, our 5:40 AM flight, and some weather looming in the moutains we decided to make our
way down to Boise proper. After eating a delicous dinner at a Mexican restaurant, we found
ourselves in the parking lot of a Holiday Inn express sorting/packing equipment and getting
ready to get a few hours of sleep.

## Traveling home
Generally speaking, sleeping in our suburban home in the parking lot worked out fine and also
turned out to be our warmest night yet. We made it back to the airport in plenty of time, 
brushed our teeth in the airport bathroom and stuffed ourselves into the back row of the 
plane back to MSP and onto MKE. 

## Overall recap
This trip felt like the epitome of trying to be an adventurer ski bum without the time to
be a true adventurer ski bum. We managed to ski for free, sleep for free, and see a 
really underrated but beautiful area of the country. It's hard to beat the American 
mountain west. 

Aside from the fact that it's a bit harder to get to than some other ski destinations, I 
would really consider recommending a group of people to come here for a ski trip. I'd 
especially call out McCall, where Brundage was at. Its a small mountain town that's 
likely much much cheaper than anywhere else you can find. The skiing isn't necessarily 
world class and resorts are a bit more bare bones, but I think they are big enough and 
beautiful enough for a group to have a great time. There is also Tamarack resort close by 
that could be worth a trip if folks didn't want to ski at Brundage every day. 

## Cost breakdown
This trip was from a Thursday to Sunday. February 2023.

| Expense                          | Cost |
|----------------------------------|------|
|Rental Car                        | $235 |
|Car gas                           | $75  |
|Flights (&bags) MKE->Boise        | $716 |
|Airport Parking                   | $32  |
|Food                              | $215 |
|Total                             | $1273|


[Frenchies]:https://frenchiesonthird.squarespace.com/