---
layout: post
title:  "Copper Mountain, Colorado"
date:   2024-1-3 12:30:02 -0600
categories: [ skiing ]
---

## The TLDR
We went to Copper Mountain on a Saturday in March 2023
as part of a big family/friend ski trip. This was day
3 of our trip. Though a lot of fun (because by default,
skiing just is), I feel like some of our tactics
around the day leave me with more to be desired.

### The would I go back?
I would most definitely like to go back to Copper under
2 stipulations.
1. We have a smaller group for the day. We were probably
running a group of about 10 people with a wide
variety of abilities.  Couple that with the fact that
only 2 people in our group knew their way around,
we spent a lot of time making sure we could keep people
together.
1. We don't go on a Saturday. I'll get into it more later on
but Copper is probably always going to be busy on a 
weekend.

On a positive note, Copper has a lot of 
difficult, varying, and fun terrain. With its elevation being
so high, the snow is probably pretty consistently reliable.
It is likely big enough to accommodate multiple days of 
skiing too. 

## The day
For any context of the different areas I'm talking about in
this section, visit the [Copper Mountain maps].

We had a quick drive to Copper from where we were staying
in Frisco on a cold Saturday morning. We arrived 
early, parked in the free parking lot, and took a Copper 
bus over to the East Village base area. 

It took a little bit of time for the back bowl areas to 
get cleared of avalanches, so we did a few laps on the 
Excelerator list before getting on the Storm King t-bar.
It was cool to see the explosions going off in
Spaulding Bowl as ski patrol did their avalanche clearance
work. 

Once open, we spent a good amount of time back in the 
Copper Bowl. Part of this "good amount of time" was in 
the line for the Three Bears lift on on the Three Bears
lift. Part of the problem here is that this lift is not
a high-speed lift, only holds 3 people, and there are 
times that they keep several chairs empty because of 
wind/weight reasons (I assume). We probably didn't take
full advantage of this area when we got to the top. Each
time we went off the lift to the right and did this 
long flattish traverse into a hellish wind. Coupled with
some snowboarders, this routinely took a while. The actual
run out of this was a lot of untouched snow and fun though.

We eventually didn't go down to Three Bears and cut off at 
Mountain Chief - another decently long lift line, slow lift,
and only a 2 person chair. There was some pretty steep and
rocky terrain off of the top of this. Given it being
almost lunchtime, I think we did a few (maybe only 1) run
off of this lift. This is the lift where I broke the news
to Will that Grace and I were expecting a baby!

We eventually made a lengthy run down to the Center Village
from the top by way of going under the Timberline Express
lift. From Center Village, I believe we hit up the 
American Flyer and American Eagle
lifts before getting to the top of Super Bee (East Village). 
There were a few fun groomers with trees intermingled 
during this sequence. 

At the top of Super Bee, our group got mixed up. Two of us
ended at the bottom of the Resolution chair - a long straight-as-an-arrow 
grueling set of moguls. Everyone else ended up at the bottom
of Alpine. The group eventually ended up at the bottom of 
Alpine was in way over their skis. With no service in the 
area, it took a little bit to get everyone back together. 
After we did, we managed to get a few more hard-packed 
groomer runs in before ending the day at Center Village. 

There's a lot in here. I feel like my summary is that
Copper is huge and we didn't spend much time in
any areas as we covered more of their lifts. 
There was a decent amount of fresh 
snow that they got from the storm that passed through 
the previous day. Coverage was solid everywhere. All in
all, it's impossible to say this was a bad day of skiing. 
I think everyone we were with had a lot of fun.


## The skiing
- 2700' of vert
- 2500 skiable acres 
- [Copper Mountain stats]

### The snow
We got lucky that a small storm rolled through the day
before we went to Copper. This led to a fair amount of fresh
snow that was untouched in some areas. Given the high altitude
and cold temps, the snow here seemed to be pretty light 
and fluffy. The freshies that we 
found weren't necessarily on the steepest terrain, but they
were still a lot of fun. Coverage on the whole was 
very good - in groomed areas and not. 

### The mountain
Copper is a mix of a lot of terrains. We didn't necessarily
get into a lot of the double-black level difficulty runs. From
what I saw and some of what we skied, I think Copper may 
have the highest volume of expert terrain of all the places 
we went to during our trip to Colorodo in March 2023 (Breck,
Vail, Copper, Loveland). 

The front side of the mountain has several 
long and fast lifts that give access to long runs
that mix between green, blue, and black. This has just 
about everything you could want. It's also got some 
nice skiable trees too. The far East side of the mountain 
(Alpine and Resolution lifts) has some tough, steep, and
mogul runs. 
We barely touched the far West side - namely the areas 
around the Sierra and Timberline lifts.  

I don't think we made it into the Spaulding Bowl, but I imagine
it being a similar/tougher version of the far-back Copper Bowl. Both
of these bowls exist above treeline and have beautiful 360 degree 
high-alpine views.
The Copper Bowl had some easily accessible outs from the truly gnarly
terrain. If you wanted to ski some real steeps in either of those 
bowls, I think you'd have plenty of skiing. 

## The human element
Copper has a bit of a rich bro vibe.
- Rich: Given it's an ikon pass
resort, you can tell a lot of pass holders fill the
mountain. It has a lot of amenities (see below) in addition to 
its 3 base villages. There are lots of places for you to spend money in 
addition to the $180+ cost of admission.
- Bro: They have a super-pipe  

### The Crowds
Copper was crowded on the Saturday when we visited. We got in line 
early and waited in a short line to get on the Super Bee lift at 
the start of the day. I think the lines would have certainly been bad from the 
villages for a good portion of the morning. When the bowl lifts opened, 
there were some good lines there too. This may be exacerbated by the fact
that the lift holds 3 people, is not high speed and they intentionally
don't use each chair all the time. We encountered a long
lift line at Timberline near midday that we decided to skip to go all the way down
to the Center Village.

With the lines everywhere, I think we probably still never waited in a line
for more than 15 minutes. It just ends up feeling like a lot of waiting
when it seems like you're waiting in lines more than you're skiing. 

### The Amenities
Copper has a lot of non-skiing to offer. There are a few spots on the front
of the mountain where you could find sustenance. However,
the base villages are easily the best places to hang out. From the 
Center Village in particular, you can watch folks come down the 
superpipe and listen to live music while enjoying food or a beverage. 


[Copper Mountain maps]:https://www.coppercolorado.com/the-mountain/trail-area-maps/winter-trail-map
[Copper Mountain stats]:https://www.coppercolorado.com/the-mountain/mountain-stats/winter-mountain-stats