---
layout: post
title:  "My mudwtr experience"
date:   2024-3-6 12:30:02 -0600
categories: [ preoccupations ]
---

My mother in-law got me Mudwtr for Christmas
2023. Prior to recieving it, I had never
heard of the product. In essence, Mudwtr is a
blend of mushrooms that is marketed
as a coffee replacement. It promises 
no caffiene jitters (due to a fraction of 
the caffiene of a cup of coffee) while 
helping you accomplish the same energy boost
of a cup of coffee.

## Taste test
Full disclosure - I'm particularly poor at 
describing taste. When someone asks me what I think
of a particular food, I can usually let them know
if the thing was good or bad. After that, I'm 
useless.

For Mudwtr, I probably end up somewhere in the
middle of good and bad from a taste perspective. 
I still liked the taste 
of coffee better, but I definitely wouldn't call it
bad. I was also given cococunt milk and cocunut sugar
with the actual Mudwtr powder. On occassion, I 
mixed them in too. They would definitely give
it a different taste. Mudwtr says that
if you froth the coconut milk and mix with the 
Mudwtr powder, it should resemble a Chai tea latte.
I can sort of see this and would generalize that
it felt like Mudwtr was more like tea than like
coffee. 

The most noticeable thing from a taste/mouthfeel 
standpoint is that the powder doesn't actually
dissolve. According to Mudwtr, this is an indication
that they don't have some added chemicals in the
powder. For the consumer, it tastes like a lot of 
silt if you don't drink the Mudwtr fast enough. I 
found that I had to go back and partially refill
my mug several times in order to finish a cup 
without drinking silt as part of the bottom of the
cup. I am under the impression that just stirring
the powder enough suspends it in the water and once
it sits for a given amount of time, the powder just
falls to the bottom of the cup. 

## How do I feel?
I drank Mudwtr in place of coffee on a few days and 
in addition to coffee on others. For only Mudwtr 
instances, I think I felt fine for the day. I think I 
was also off work at the time (just after Christmas) and
I may have just been able to sleep enough that I didn't
feel the need.

When I drank coffee and then Mudwtr, I felt that I could
drink the Mudwtr later in the day and not feel weird about
having caffiene to late in the day. I think I was generally
more awake after drinking it too.

If you've made it this far, you're probably begging me 
to get to the point. In general, Mudwtr didn't make me
feel overly caffinated (as they market) and I probably 
didn't drink it when I was overly tired to rely on it
for a true boost. Since I drink about 1-2 cups of coffee
per day, I'm likely not missing out on the caffiene in 
the same way as someone who averages 3-4 cups of coffee
per day.

## Would I buy it?
Since finishing the Mudwtr that I was gifted, I've 
thought about buying it on several occassions. Each
time I come to the conclusion of no because:
- I didn't immediately fall in love with the taste.
- It's still more expensive than coffee and I don't
drink all that much coffee.
- I recently discovered green tea might be an even
better substitute to the afternoon cup of coffee.
I can buy that for much cheaper than Mudwtr or
get it for free at work. 

