---
layout: post
title:  "Vail, Colorado"
date:   2024-1-6 12:30:02 -0600
categories: [ zz_skiing ]
---

## The TLDR
We went to Vail as part of a big family/friend
trip in March 2023. The day at Vail was day 
2 of 4 for our trip. This day will go down
as one of my favorite and most memorable 
days of skiing ever. 

### The would I go back?
Without hesitation, yes. From very early in the 
day, I was saying "This place lives up to the hype."
It's also worth noting that I was initially 
hesitant to go to Vail because of the cost, crowds,
and hoity-toity nature. 

I'll commentate more below, but this notion of 
wanting to go back is heavily influenced by the 
dream of a storm we encountered while skiing Vail. We also
barely touched most of the mountain on the day we were there.

## The day
_It may be best to read about the day with the [Vail maps]_
_open to give context on the landmarks and lifts that_
_are referenced._

We started our day at a parking garage in Vail Village
and quickly made it to the top of the mountain. As soon
as the Legendary Back Bowls were open, we started navigating
through the Sun Up Bowl, and Sun Down Bowl.

In the Sun Down Bowl particular, runs were quite long,
bumpy, and covered in cruddy snow. Some of the snow even had
an inch-thick layer of ice on top of it. It was pretty sunny
during this time of the day. 

We stayed in the Back Bowls until eating lunch at Buffalos. 
After lunch, we headed back to the Blue Sky Basin. To get there,
Grace and I took a run through Sun Up Bowl, up Sun Up Express, and
down generally under the Tea Cup Express to arrive at Skyline Express.
Others in our group took a long wavering route with no lift that
required some pushing to get to the same spot. I only call this
out because in hindsight, those others said avoiding the lift wasn't 
worth it. Grace and I enjoyed just making 2 runs of it. 
The snow was great along our path. 

This is when the real fun started. Seemingly on queue, it started 
nuking. We got a few laps in on Earl's Express Lift and then
a few longer runs on the Skyline Express Lift. Both had a beautiful
mix of open space and glade skiing that was simply immaculate
as this storm dumped it on us. I let out several child-like
yips as we ventured through the trees on each run. And to add to it,
there was no one anywhere during this time. This is 
what you dream of.

Of note, we only skied to skiers left of the Skyline Express 
Lift in the Blue Sky Basin to avoid the potential of pushing from
the bottom of Pete's Express Lift back to the Skyline Express/TeaCup 
Express lift areas. Given it's so remote, Blue Sky Basin has to close early, so we 
headed back over into the Back Bowls. In Tea Cup Bowl, we got knee-deep
runs as the storm kept hammering. 

Eventually, the Back Bowls closed 
and we did a couple runs on the Northwoods Express lift. This just
so happens to be where all of the people were. On return to the top,
we took a run to the base of Wildwood Express to position ourselves
at the top of Wildwood. From there, we
navigated blowing snow and steep/hard groomers for 2700 vertical feet
back down to Vail Village to finish the day. 

And the fun didn't stop there. Just before we all got packed up 
for the day, Grace and I announced Baby Sutton was to arrive in
late September 2023!
![Baby Reveal]

## The skiing
- 3400' of vert
- 5300 skiable acres
- [Complete Vail mountain stats]

### The snow
Any of the groomers we hit during our day were well-covered
hard-packed snow with no ice at all. I think you can
generally count on 0 or a very small amount of ice in the 
West given the amount of snow they get in a year. This is 
probably especially true in areas of high altitude (like Vail)
where it's more likely to stay consistently cold.

During the morning in the Back Bowls, the snow was 
pretty cruddy. The sun seemingly melts some of the 
surface snow during the day and it freezes overnight. In some
areas, we even encountered an inch-thick ice crust. In other
areas, the snow varied widely - from frozen bumps to heavier 
snow that hadn't completely frozen overnight.

Then the afternoon rolled around. I estimate that it snowed as
much as 6 inches. We got dreamy blower pow for a few hours. 
There's not much else to it. It was like being a kid on 
Christmas.

### The mountain
Vail has 3 distinct parts of the mountain. See [Vail maps] for
trail maps and a deeper look into what I talk through below.

#### Front Side
This part of the mountain has a ton of groomed trails of easy,
intermediate and expert terrain. You could
definitely spend an entire day in this area and not do the same
run twice. 

This is also how you get on the mountain. We started at
Vail Village, but there is also a separate Lionshead Village
with another gondola that gets up high on the mountain
as well. The gondola from Lionshead Village is also the fastest 
way to get to the Game Creek Bowl. Before this post, I didn't
even know this was a part of the mountain. 

I would bet that lines could get pretty long on the Front Side 
largely because the terrain can accommodate literally everyone.
The runs on the front can be very long too. From Vail Village,
you could take Gondola One and then Mountain Top or Wildwood
to up to ~11,000' and take a single run (with many trail 
combinations) back down to Vail Village at 8200'. From Lionshead,
you could take Eagle Bahn Gondola up to 10,350' and go back 
down to 8210'. Both of these examples emphasize
the fact that you can go top-to-bottom on the Front Side and 
hit a near-limitless number of trails in doing so. 

#### Back Bowls
The Legendary Back Bowls. Seven bowls make up the
Back Bowls. Though you may think bowl skiing is bowl skiing, 
each of the bowls has its
unique flavor - from the level of terrain to the type
of terrain to the snow that fills it. Some of the bowls had
an easy blue way down. Others have sustained steep pitches. 
Some areas are groomed. Others have bumps. And still others have
some trees to navigate through. And finally, the snow in each bowl
depends on how the sun hits it throughout the day. 

I would argue the back bowls are
one of the coolest areas in any ski resort. There is endless 
potential for fun and you could most definitely spend an entire day
in this area and not cover it all.

#### Blue Sky Basin
The Blue Sky Basin takes forever to get to. It is at least
3 lift rides from the Vail Village (and I'd argue the
better way to do it is with 4 lifts). But it is so worth it. This
remoteness might even help to limit the lines in this area. There's
only one place for food/drink and you have to work through difficult
terrain to actually get there. I think the trek to get
there, lack of amenities, and difficult terrain keep a decent amount
of people away. 

_Take all of this crowd talk with a grain of salt._
_We happened to get there after lunch on a Friday and there were very_
_few people around. That's purely anecdotal evidence that this area_
_isn't as busy as others on the mountain._

Like the other parts of Vail, this could be a resort all on its 
own. It's largely expert-level terrain with a few easy-way-out 
blue runs that can act as a run-out to lifts. The highlights
of this area include some gnarly entrances to steep terrain, awesome
tree skiing, and playful open spaces.

## The human element
Vail is a really special place. It certainly gives off a hoity-toity
vibe - especially in the base areas. And that seems fitting based on
what you can read about Vail.
The underrated part of Vail is the phenomenal terrain 
for advanced skiers. There is simply so much good skiing
that it's easy to ignore Vail's affluent ambiance.
 
### The Crowds
In 2023, Vail is known for its extraordinarily long lift lines. Rumour
has it that some have been up to 2 hours long. On our Friday visit,
I never saw such a line (the longest line was maybe 5 minutes),
but we largely avoided the Front Side of 
the mountain (where I expect such lines could exist). Generally speaking,
it didn't even feel all that busy while we were there. If I were to guess,
Vail's sheer mass naturally disperses even a lot of people pretty quickly. 

This might be an entirely different story on a weekend, but even so,
it feels like you could make an effort to avoid people for the day,
be successful and have a lot of fun doing so. 

### The Amenities
Vail has all that you could want in a ski resort and more. There
are a variety of dining and beverage options at various parts of
the mountain (base areas, part way up, top). It's worth noting that
you should probably plan at least a little bit around food in your day
if you wish to maximize your time skiing. Vail is big enough that 
even though there are a lot of food options, it
could take a while to get to food. 

In addition to food/beverage, the villages at Vail have whatever
you might want. 
- `Lodging -> check.`  
- `World-class 5-star meal -> check`
- `Spa -> check.`
- `Shopping -> check.`
- `Ice skating -> check.`
- `Live music -> check.`
- `European style architecture -> check.`

[Vail maps]:https://www.vail.com/the-mountain/about-the-mountain/trail-map.aspx
[Baby Reveal]:/assets/images/vailBabyReveal2023.PNG
[Complete Vail mountain stats]:https://www.vail.com/the-mountain/about-the-mountain/mountain-info.aspx