---
layout: post
title:  "Bogus Basin, Idaho"
date:   2024-1-1 12:30:02 -0600
categories: [ zz_skiing ]
---

## The TLDR
In February 2023, Grace and I packed our bags 
for Idaho to hit up Brundage Mountain and Bogus 
Basin (subject of this post) to take advantage of free lift tickets
as part of the Mount Bohemia season pass. 
Bogus is a pretty big resort with a decent variety of terrain-wide 
open groomers, some steeps, moguls, and technical terrain. It's 
located just North of Boise, Idaho. 
We had a nice day of skiing when we were there, albeit a bit warm for most of it.

### The would I go back?
I would consider going back to Bogus Basin. I'm
not sure that I would like to spend an entire trip here. 
There aren't many other resorts 
close by though, so you'd almost have to do this as part
of a trip that stays in multiple places. Part of my rationale 
here is that you almost have to stay in Boise and make the 
trip up the super windy road every day. The proximity to Boise 
is a plus for traveling in, but also feels like it could lend 
to some pretty big crowds. In particular, we noticed a lot 
of ski clubs arriving at night.
The skiing and terrain were a lot of fun though. And if the snow 
is right, it would be even more fun. Mentioning the snow seems 
worthwhile because I'm not sure they end up with "that" 
much snow on average. A group of people may find it to be a fun 
spot for a trip too. There's almost nothing that everyone can't 
ski and plenty of on-mountain amenities. 

## The day
Our day started in the Bogus Parking lot 
(specifically #4 - Bitterroot & Buttercup). We slept in the car 
the night before and were nicely positioned to ski out 
from the car down to the ticket window.

We headed to the areas around the Superior Express lift and Pine Creek
Express lifts to start the day. By midday, we ventured into the Basin to
hit up the lifts near Deer Point. We ate lunch at the car and then finished
off the day with some more laps in Pine Creek, Superior and 
Bitterroot areas.


## The skiing
- 1800' vert
- 2600 acres
- [Complete mountain stats] 

### The snow
We got a decently warm day of skiing. At the beginning of the day, 
there was some ice and hard spots from freezing overnight. As the 
day wore on and the sun got higher, the snow softened up. At lower 
elevations, there was even a hint of slush/spring corn in the snow. 
By the end of the day, cold air and some high winds moved in, 
rendering all of that soft/wet snow to ice pretty quickly.

### The mountain
[Link to Bogus Basin Trail Map]

Bogus Basin felt like an atypical mountain given how it is set up. 
It's difficult to understand other than by saying that a 2D map isn't 
great at portraying the layers/ridgelines. It's aptly named a basin. 
But there is also a backside area off of the basin that took some 
looking at the maps to fully understand and navigate. If you're 
looking at a map, I am calling the backside the areas 
with the Pine Creek Express and Superior Express lifts.


This backside area had a lot of fun and fairly steep terrain. 
The actual basin part of the mountain seemed to collect a lot 
of people. It's also where the terrain park was at. We didn't 
spend all that much time in the basin - especially the area 
above the terrain park. 

## The human element
Bogus Basin had a family-friendly vibe to it. Especially on a 
Saturday, you can tell there are a lot of families that make 
the trip up from Boise. There are also several beer/waffle 
stands on the mountain that would be appealing to a party crowd. 
There's a good variety of terrain to accommodate a good variety of people. 

### The Crowds
We waited in lines for most of the day. However, I 
don't think that any of them could have been longer than 10 minutes. 
Upon getting off any lifts, I don't remember a lot of crowds on the 
actual mountain though. Generally speaking, it feels fair to say 
that you can get away during your runs. People seem to spread out 
pretty well. I should mention that this observation may be a bit 
shortsighted. Grace and I were doing more difficult runs 
which combined with the fact that many people don't venture into 
these areas anyway and the family atmosphere, may just be unique 
to these runs on the mountain. Other easier parts of the mountain could feel busy.

### The Amenities
I alluded to them earlier, but there are a good amount of on-mountain 
dining/beverage options at Bogus Basin. The lodges that I went into 
were modern and well-kept too. I believe they had some on-mountain 
music going at a spot with a few food/beverage stands too. We ate at 
our car, but I think it's fair to say that if you got hungry you could 
find food pretty quickly. As far as I'm aware, there wasn't any lodge 
or picnic area at a high point with a big view though. 

[Complete mountain stats]: https://bogusbasin.org/your-mountain/maps-statistics/
[Link to Bogus Basin Trail Map]: https://media.bogusbasin.org/uploads/2022/11/09115523/Winter-_Trail_Map_Web-02-1-scaled.jpg